Documentation: Add Neovim configuration documentation (#16670)
SerenityOS/serenity: Documentation/NvimConfiguration.md

```

Run `:PlugInstall` inside nvim.

# Install coc-clangd via CocInstall

```vim
:CocInstall coc-clangd
```

> **Note**: This guide is tested with clangd version 14.0.6 and 15.0.6.

In case you have not installed clangd already install it with
`:CocCommand clangd.install`.

This will install a separate version of clangd just for neovim.

# Configure coc-clangd in coc-settings.json

Use the following settings to ensure that coc-clangd works out of the box.

> **Note**: You might want to adjust the `clangd.fallbackFlags` depending on your build
system and customize the `inlayHints.sep` based on your preference.

```json
{
    "clangd.fallbackFlags": ["-std=c++20"],
    "semanticTokens.enable": true,
    "inlayHint.subSeparator": "︴",
    "inlayHints.enableParameter": true,
    "clangd.inlayHints.sep": "⇝"
}
```

To change the coc-settings.json go to the file `~/.config/nvim/coc-settings.json`
or type `:CocConfig` in the command line.

> **Note**: In case you already had another c++ language server configured in the
`coc-settings.json` you might want to nuke it first and
work towards your desired config by adding the other parts back in to avoid
conflicts.

> > **Note**: If you've configured `clangd` as a languageServer in

Reviewer: "If you have"

Author: fixed.

```

Run `:PlugInstall` inside nvim.

# Install coc-clangd via CocInstall

```vim
:CocInstall coc-clangd
```

Note: This guide is tested with clangd version 14.0.6 and 15.0.6.

In case you have not installed clangd already install it with
`:CocCommand clangd.install`.

This will install a separate version of clangd just for neovim.

# Configure coc-clangd in coc-settings.json

Use the following settings to ensure that coc-clangd works out of the box.

Note: You might want to adjust the `clangd.fallbackFlags` depending on your build
system and customize the `inlayHints.sep` based on your preference.

```json
{
    "clangd.fallbackFlags": ["-std=c++20"],
    "semanticTokens.enable": true,
    "inlayHint.subSeparator": "︴",
    "inlayHints.enableParameter": true,
    "clangd.inlayHints.sep": "⇝"
}
```

To change the coc-settings.json go to the file `~/.config/nvim/coc-settings.json`
or type `:CocConfig` in the command line.

Note: In case you already had another c++ language server configured in the
`coc-settings.json` you might want to nuke it first and
work towards your desired config by adding the other parts back in to avoid
conflicts.

> **Don't have a languageServer config for clangd**. Allegedly (according to

Reviewer: This is still badly formatted.

Author: Now i just copied the literal words of of coc-clangd. Sorry for the inconvenience.

nmap <silent> gd <Plug>(coc-definition)
nmap <silent> gt <Plug>(coc-type-definition)
nmap <silent> gi <Plug>(coc-implementation)
nmap <silent> gr <Plug>(coc-references)

"coc rename (\rn)
nmap <leader>rn <Plug>(coc-rename)

"prev or next error
nmap <silent> [g <Plug>(coc-diagnostic-prev)
nmap <silent> ]g <Plug>(coc-diagnostic-next)

"confirm coc-suggestion with enter
imap <silent><expr> <CR> coc#pum#visible() ? coc#pum#confirm() : "\<CR>"

"ctrl+space for completion
imap <silent><expr> <c-space> coc#refresh()

"show documentation with ctrl+k
nmap <silent><c-k> :call ShowDocumentation()<CR>

"show documentation if it's available
function! ShowDocumentation()
  if CocAction('hasProvider', 'hover')
    call CocActionAsync('doHover')
  else
    call feedkeys('K', 'in')
  endif
endfunction

"coc-clangd switch between header and source
nmap <silent>gs :CocCommand clangd.switchSourceHeader vsplit<CR>
"END: coc
```

# Configure .clangd

Note: Everytime a new source is added or the compilation commands get adjusted
(through CMake) you need to rerun `./Meta/serenity.sh rebuild`.

Link `ln -s /path/to/serenity/Build/x86_64/compile_commands.json /path/to/serenity/compile_commands.json`.

> Create `/path/to/serenity/.clangd` (replace `/path/to/serenity`

Reviewer: Please do not duplicate this and instead refer to the VSCode config which has more info on this

Author: is now referenced.

# NVim Project Configuration

NVim can be configured to use the [COC-clangd](https://github.com/clangd/coc-clangd)
plugin to provide code-completion as well as inline
[git blame](https://github.com/f-person/git-blame.nvim) using [vim-plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug).

Make sure you ran `./Meta/serenity.sh rebuild-toolchain` as well as
`./Meta/serenity.sh run`.

> # 0. Install vim-plug

Reviewer: I don't think it's necessary to number the headings, we don't do that anywhere else.

Author: Done.

See [https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug).

# 1. Install coc.nvim

The config file for neovim is at `~/.config/nvim/init.vim` or if
set `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/nvim/init.vim`.

Add the Plugin:
```vim
Plug 'neoclide/coc.nvim', { 'branch': 'release' }
```
Run `:PlugInstall` inside nvim.

# 2. Install coc-clangd via CocInstall

```vim
:CocInstall coc-clangd
```
Note: This guide is tested with clangd version 14.0.6

> In case you have not installed clangd already install it with

Reviewer: Please end sentences with a period everywhere.

Author: Done.

```
:CocCommand clangd.install
```

# 3. Configure coc-clangd in coc-settings.json

Use the following settings to ensure that coc-clangd works out of the box.

Note: You might want to adjust the flalbackFlags or inlayHints.sep according

> to future c++ releases and preference.

Reviewer: I would split this note up in two parts: One for the hint separator which is purely preference-based, and one for the fallback flags which depend on our current build system and might change in the future.

Reviewer: Also, there's a typo in fallbackFlags :^)

Author: Done.

```json
{
    "clangd.fallbackFlags": ["-std=c++20"],
    "semanticTokens.enable": true,
    "clangd.inlayHints.sep": "⇝"
}
```

To change the coc-settings.json go to the file `~/.config/nvim/coc-settings.json`
or type `:CocConfig` in the command line.

Note: In case you already had another language server configured in the
coc-settings.json you might want to nuke the rest of the config first and
work towards your desired config by adding the other parts back in.

> **Don't have a languageServer config for clangd**

Reviewer: What is this line doing here?

Author: Clarified. (hopefully)

nmap <silent> gr <Plug>(coc-references)

"coc rename (\rn)
nmap <leader>rn <Plug>(coc-rename)

"prev or next error
nmap <silent> [g <Plug>(coc-diagnostic-prev)
nmap <silent> ]g <Plug>(coc-diagnostic-next)

"confirm coc-suggestion with enter
imap <silent><expr> <CR> coc#pum#visible() ? coc#pum#confirm() : "\<CR>"

"ctrl+space for completion
imap <silent><expr> <c-space> coc#refresh()

"show documentation with ctrl+k
nmap <silent><c-k> :call ShowDocumentation()<CR>

"show documentation if it's available
function! ShowDocumentation()
  if CocAction('hasProvider', 'hover')
    call CocActionAsync('doHover')
  else
    call feedkeys('K', 'in')
  endif
endfunction

"coc-clangd switch between header and source
nmap <silent>gs :CocCommand clangd.switchSourceHeader vsplit<CR>
"END: coc
```

# 6. Add Compile Flags so clangd works properly

Note: Normally you would use the `compile_commands.json` generated by the
`./Meta/serenity.sh` script.
Link `ln -s path_to_serenity_root/Build/x86_64/compile_commands.json path_to_serenity_root/compile_commands.json`.
This doesn't work as of clangd 14.0.6 so the following is needed.

Create a named `compile_flags.txt` for each of the following directories

> `AK`, `Kernel` and `Userland`.

Reviewer: "for each of the directories `AK`, ..."

Author: Reworked with help from @Matrix89.

-Iserenity_root/Build/x86_64/Userland/Libraries
-Iserenity_root/Build/x86_64/Userland

-DENABLE_COMPILETIME_FORMAT_CHECK
-DSANITIZE_PTRS

-pie
-fpic
-static-pie
-fdiagnostics-color=always

-Wall
-Wextra
-Werror
-Wno-address-of-packed-member
-Wcast-qual
-Wdeprecated-copy
-Wduplicated-cond
-Wformat=2
-Wimplicit-fallthrough
-Wlogical-op
-Wmisleading-indentation
-Wmissing-declarations
-Wnon-virtual-dtor
-Wsuggest-override
-Wno-unknown-warning-option
-Wundef
-Wunused
-Wno-unused-command-line-argument
-Wwrite-strings

-fdiagnostics-color=always
-fno-delete-null-pointer-checks
-ffile-prefix-map=serenity_root=.
-fno-exceptions
-fno-semantic-interposition
-fsized-deallocation
-fstack-clash-protection
-fstack-protector-strong
-g1

-Wno-user-defined-litereals
-Wno-atomic-alignment
-Wno-implicit-const-int-float-conversion
-Wno-unused-const-variable
-Wno-unused-private-field
-fconstexpr-steps=16777216

-DKERNEL
-O2
-fsigned-char
-Wvla
-Wnull-dereference
-fno-rtti
-ffreestanding
-fbuiltin
-mno-80387
-mno-mmx
-mno-sse
-mno-sse2
-fno-asynchronous-unwind-tables
-nostdlib
-ftrivial-auto-var-init=pattern
-mcmodel=large
-mno-red-zone
-faligned-new=8
-fsanitize=undefined
```

> Note: Replace `serenity_root` with your root directory of the serenity os.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Replace `serenity_root` with your SerenityOS directory.
```

Author: Applied.

Thanks for the reviews btw :^)
